Instructions: http://indico.cern.ch/internalPage.py?pageId=0&confId=69338

(1) TITLE:  

Providing uniform and standardised access to European Grid middleware with SAGA.


(2) SHORT OVERVIEW: Short description and scope of presented work. (max 500 chars) 416

The Simple API for Grid Applications (SAGA), has demonstrated its ability to provide a simplified and uniform multi-language access layer to heterogeneous grid middleware stacks. SAGA already provides support for Unicore and gLite, and extensions to ARC via OGSA-BES as well as generic DRMAA support are already being developed or planned. First SAGA application integration tests within EGEE have been successfull.


(3) DETAILED ANALYSIS: Detailed description of the work planned or achieved. Should include technical details, challenges faced, and technical or other problems that you had to overcome etc. (max 1000 chars) 1032

The C++/Python implementation of OGF's SAGA standard (GFD-R-P.90) developed by LSU has been used successfully as a unified Grid access layer for scientific applications running on the TeraGrid (Globus, Condor, LSF, PBS), UK-NGS (GridSAM) and cloud infrastructures (Amazon's EC2). Our current focus is on the development of extensions (adaptors) that enable SAGA to interface to three of the major European grid middleware projects: gLite, Unicore and ARC. Unicore access through GridSAM and parts of the gLite stack are already available. Adaptors for gLite have been developed as implementations of the SAGA Service Discovery extension (GFD-R-P.144). Support for further gLite components as well as a generic OGSA-BES extension that will allow native access to both Unicore and ARC are currently under development and expected to be avilable soon. To demonstrate viability of this effort, SAGA has been integrated with Ganga and Diane and successfully executed Lattice QCD jobs simultaneously on EGEE and TeraGrid infrastructures.


(4) IMPACT: Description of the work results. Quantitative information should be provided where applicable. Justification of the significance of the work and how it impacted the domain should be provided. Moreover the originality of the work should be compared to similar existing activities. (max 1000 chars) 989

Although this work is still under development, its long-term impact on the European middleware can be inferred from our on-going work that currently fosters interoperability between the US TeraGrid, UK-NGS and NAREGI, as well as from first EGEE application integration tests. We have shown that using SAGA as a high-level middleware access layer not only makes application development and tooling easier (and faster), but also naturally results in portability and interoperability on a local, national and international level. As demonstrated at EGEE'09, a simple SAGA plugin enables Ganga/Diane to not only execute jobs on local CERN infrastructure, but also to the TeraGrid - an infrastructure that previously wasn't accessible through Ganga/Diane. Similar advances are being made with the UNICORE-based DEISA infrastructure. Extending further (e.g. to NAREGI and ARC), becomes a matter of developing the appropriate SAGA adaptors and the application does not need to be modified again.

(5) CONCLUSION & FUTURE WORK: Short concluding summary. Description of the plans for further development/work to be performed and the technical challenges and other problems that you anticipate to overcome in order to achieve the expected goals. (max 500 chars) 473

We believe that our current and future work will align well with future European efforts in a sense that it provides the right technology with the right level of abstraction that is required to leverage the development of truly distributed and portable applications in an expanding heterogeneous environment. In order to support a seamless integration, our future work will focus on additional bindings to gLite (WMS & CREAM) as well as native OGSA-BES and DRMAA bindings.


o WEBSTIE (mandatory):

http://saga.cct.lsu.edu/
 
o KEYWORDS (mandatroy): 

OGF standard API interoperability

o PRIMARY AUTHORS:

Ole Weidner Andre Merzky, Steve Fisher, Shantenu Jha, 

o CO-AUTHORS:  

o TRACK CLASSIFICATION (1 or more):

See http://indico.cern.ch/conferenceProgram.py?confId=69338

- Software services exploiting and/or extending grid middleware
- Programming environments
- National and international activities and collaborations

