 Pstar Research Overview, Tracks and timelines

Following several years of in-depth analysis of DCI (eg DPA theme,
SAGA project) and implementing applications that can utilize them, we
believe that the  Pilot abstraction provides a unique opportunity to
revisit the theory and practise of distributed CI.  Interestingly,
although the pilot abstraction has seemingly been "around" for many
years, we provide a fresh if not radically different perspecitve of
the pilot abstraction and establish its use, capabilities and theory
in hitherto previously unknown ways.

Track 1 Core Pstar Model: To provide a common analytical framework to
understand the most commonly used pilot-jobs, provide a logical
extension to data (pilot-data).  The P* model descripes a set of
necessary common elements for every pilot system, followed by a
description of the characteristics that determine the interaction of
these elements and the overall functioning of a pilot system.  P*
provides a common minimal model that in principle capture all pilot
abstractions. Differences between different pilot systems are in
captured in the different characteristics and elements.

An important strand within Core Pstar Track is the design and
implementation of Pilot-Data and how will affinities be represented
and supported by Pilot-Abstracitons. How will Pilot-Data/Affinities
abstraction be supported on production infrastructure? Clouds?  What
are the challenges (implmenetation) and scalability limit?

Track 2 Define and describe Pilot-API: Given TROY, BigJob and DIANE
renderings of the Pilot-API, what is the Pilot-API.  

Track 3: Pilot-Abstractions as a runtime environment for executing workflows

Track 4: TROY: Pilot Interoperation and Application-level
Scheduling. The aim of this track is to provide TROY as a capability
to use multiple concurrent and possibly distinct pilot-systems, as
well as providing the capability to support application-level
scheduling.

Track 5: Actuated and Intelligent Pilots that can use network
information and other information service(s) to more effectively
distribute CU as well as Pilots themselves.


******
A possible list and topics of publications:
 
0. SAGA paper [JPDC] (Oct 15) and 3DPAS [CCPE, FGCS or JPDC]:
1. Pilot-API and Pilot-data: arxiv by 01 Nov, possibly followed by
HPDC?
2. Pilot-Abstraction and Workflows: CCGrid
3. TROY: JoGC [if timelines allow, else look for another target]]?
4. Distribution techniques using Pstar: HPDC 
5. Pilot-abstractions for Clouds: CCPE Special Issue
6. Pilot-Star: transactions paper

