DARE-NGS: Towards Extensible and Scalable NGS Analytics on the TeraGrid/XD

Next-Generation (gene) Sequencing (NGS) machines produce unprecedented
amounts of data.  In addition to the challenge of data-management that
arise from unprecedented volumes of data, there exists the important
requirement of effectively analyzing large volumes of data.  There
exist many qualitatively distinct analytical approaches that such NGS
data require for effective analysis.

Interestingly, the cyberinfrastructure considerations requried to
support a broad-range of analytical approaches and at the scales
required, has received less attention that the data-management problem
and algorithmic advances.  Thus not surprisingly, traditional
production cyberinfrastructure, such as the TeraGrid, have not been
used for such data-intensive analytics. There are multiple reasons,
but a couple of contributing factors are: (i) insufficient runtime
enviroments (and abstractions) to support concurrent computational
capabilties with large-data sets to support data-analytics (beyond
visualization) in an easy, scalable and extensible fashion, (ii)
insufficient support for user-customizable data-intensive "workflows"
that effectively hide the challenges of data-movement and efficient
data-management whilst managing concurrent distributed (computational)
resources.

Additionally, it is worth mentioning that the computational complexity
of the analysis (e.g. mapping) depends, upon other things, the size
and complexity of the reference genome & the data-size of short reads.
Given that these can vary significantly, the computational
requirements of NGS-analytics also varies (even between data-sets of
similar size).  Thus an efficient, scalable and extensible analytical
approaches must be supported by any framework supporting
NGS-analytics.

To address these concerns, we have created the DARE-NGS Gateway
(http://cyder.cct.lsu.edu/dare-ngs) which supports Genome-wide
analysis on the TeraGrid and other distributed cyber-infrastructure.
DARE-NGS builds upon the Distributed Adaptive Runtime-Environment
(DARE) Framework, which support a range of tasks with varying
computing and data requirements over a wide range of high-performance
and distributed infrastructure.

We will present results of using DARE-NGS on the TeraGrid and
FutureGrid, for BFAST applications as the representative example of
the typical analysis that is required for NGS data.  We also share our
experiences and the understanding gained by analysing the full
Human-Genome (requiring data-sets of upwards of 250GB) on the NSF
FutureGrid and on TeraGrid machines such as Ranger.


