1. Summary and Participants - Summary of Year 2 results and add new
people that worked in year 2 not already in the table on page 2.  Do
not remove people who are no longer on the project - this is a
cumulative list.

Melissa Romanus  (Rutgers)
Sharath Maddineni (LSU)
Andre Luckow  (LSU/Rutgers)
Pradeep Mantha  (LSU)

2.1  Project Activities

The primary project activities have been, (i) completion, hardening
and deployment of SAGA-Condor adaptor, (ii) testing on Open Science
Grid (OSG), (iii) Integration of SAGA-Condor adaptor within the BigJob
Pilot-Job mechanism and integration of Condor enabled BigJob within
the DARE framework of the Cactus Gateway, and (iv) support of
application groups -- Cactus-based Numerical Relativity and
Computational Biology groups.

2.2 Project Findings - I can add the Science findings based on our
Assessment Document, but you should add the project findings

As part of this project, we have developed SAGA-Condor adaptors.  The
outcome of this phase of the project is that there now exists, a
single common standards-based approach to using heterogeneous
infrastructure. 

The development and deployment of a SAGA-based Pilot-Job has resulted
in an understnading of the limitations of "common abstractions" have.
Specifically, even though SAGA-based Pilot-Jobs have the ability to
utilize OSG and XSEDE concurrently, the "usage modes" supported on OSG
and XSEDE are different, and thus imposing implicit constraints on the
usability of the pilot-jobs.

This is not a case for removing or abandoning "common abstractions"
but a reminder/lesson that the end-to-end usage of tools and
abstractions must be considered, i.e., development, deployment and
execution phase.

[Jim: Reference our "document" sent to OSG]


2.3 Training and Development

(i) Extensive and self-contained BigJob documentation and how to use
BigJob on OSG and XSEDE

(ii) In conjunction with ECSS support (XSEDE) we developed and
delivered a BigJob tutorial at XSEDE

3.0 Journal Publications

XSEDE publications
HPDC  publications
JoGC publication
CCPE publication

4.1 Contributions within Discipline

An attempt to understand and design interoperability between
pilot-jobs (not just BigJob and Condor-glidein, but also Diane) has
led to the first minimal but complete theoretical model for
pilot-jobs, viz., P-star.  Significant uptake and discussion of P-star
is happening.

4.2 Contributions to Other Disciplines

The intellectual contribution is not academic: it has led to practical
solutions/changes which have resulted in pilot-jobs not being an
"inseperable part of the infrastructure" but being a fundamental
abstraction which can be used to reason (either algorithmically or via
system-performance information) about distribution.

This is evidenced by the three science papers submitted to XSEDE'12
(of which two were accepted at XSEDE), the use of BigJob as a
"programmable" extensible and interoperable pilot-job is gaining
traction.

4.3 Contributions to Education and Human Resources

Jha taught a course on Distributed Scientific Computing at LSU in Fall
201 (and will do so again in 2012 Fall), as well as several
independent studies at Rutgers University. In each of these classrooms
as well as research-credit courses, SAGA and BigJob were introduced.
Also, as part of these courses Jha devotes a 1.5 hour lecture to
introducting OSG and XSEDE and what kind of computation each supports
as well as the software environment associated with these
infrastructure.

5.0 Conference Proceedings

A Luckow, M Santcroos, O Weidner, S Maddinenei, A Merzky and S Jha,
Towards a Common Model for Pilot-Jobs, Poster Paper, Proceedings of
the HPDC 2012 (Delft)

P Mantha, A Luckow and S Jha, “Pilot-MapReduce: An Extensible and
Flexible MapReduce Implemen- tation for Distributed Data”, Third
International Conference on MapReduce, Proceedings of the HPDC 2012
(Delft)

P Mantha, J Kim, N Kim, A Luckow and S Jha, “Understanding
MapReduce-based Next-Generation Sequencing Alignment on Distributed
Cyberinfrastructure”, Emerging Computational Methods for the
Life-Sciences, Proceedings of the HPDC 2012

Thota, Mukherji, Fujioki, Bishop and Jha, "Running Many MD Simulations
on Many Supercomputers", Accepted for XSEDE'12

Romanus, Khamra, Mantha, Merzky, Bishop, Jha, “Anatomy of a Successful
ECSS Project”, Accepted for XSEDE'12

A Luckow, M Santcroos, O Weidner, P Mantha, A Merzky and S Jha,
P*: A Model for Pilot-Abstractions, submitted, 8th IEEE e-Science
Conference, Chicago
