Abstractions for Scientific Applications on Clouds, 
Shantenu Jha, Andre Luckow

Although multiple enterprise applications have made effective use of
Clouds, the barriers to the development of large-scale
high-performance scientific applications that can utilize Clouds in an
extensible and scalable fashion remain high.  The reasons for this
exist at several levels. We believe that at the root of the problem is
the fact that developing large-scale distributed applications is
fundamentally a difficult process; developing them for emerging
platforms such as Clouds is made harder due to the lack of commonly
acceptable and widely used programming models and application-level
abstractions.  Additionally, several of the challenges that face
scientific applications for cloud environments are similar to those
faced in other distributed environments such as Grids, even if the
specific solutions/implementation are somewhat different.

In a recently submitted paper to ACM Computing Surveys
http://www.cct.lsu.edu/~sjha/select_publications/dpa_surveypaper.pdf
we explore and provide insight into the type of abstractions that
exist for distributed systems, as well as those that should be
developed to better support the effective development,
deployment, and execution of large-scale (scientific) high-performance
applications on a broad range of infrastructure.  The advantages of
such abstractions vary from better utilization of underlying resources
to the easier deployment of applications, as well as lowered
development effort.  We have taken the first steps to extending this
for abstractions for Programming and Systems for Dynamic, Distributed
and Data-Intensive Applications (See: http://wiki.esi.ac.uk/3DPAS).

Building upon this theoretical framework, we are now developing &
applying these abstractions to speed-up and support life-science
applications such as those arising from the analytical requirements of
the next-generation sequencing applications and ensemble-based
computing for enhanced sampling.  We present some initial
implementation of these abstractions on Azure and FutureGrid.  The
ultimate goal of our work is to enable a wide range of existing,
emerging and novel scientific applications to better and effectively
utilize cloud platforms.

