
SAGA on FutureGrid
==================

Activity:
---------

  The Simple API for Grid Applications (SAGA) is an OGF standard
  (http://www.ogf.org/), and defines a high level, application driven
  API for developing first principle distributed applications, and for
  distributed application frameworks and tools. Our SAGA project (see
  http://www.saga-project.org/) provides SAGA API implementations in
  C++ and Python, which interface to a variety of middleware backends,
  as well as higher level application frameworks, such as
  Master-Worker, MapReduce, AllPairs, and BigJob.  For all those
  components, we use FutureGrid and the different software
  environments available on FG for extensive portability and
  interoperability testing, but also for scale-up and scale-out
  experiments. These activities allow to harden the SAGA components
  described above, and support CS and Science experiments based on
  SAGA.



Achievement:
------------
 
  FG has provided a persistent, production-grade experimental
  infrastructure with the ability to perform controlled experiments,
  without violating production policies and disrupting production
  infrastructure priorities.  These attributes, coupled with
  FutureGrid's technical support, have resulted in the following
  specific advances in the short period of under a year:

  [[With all due respect, the FG support is friendly, understanding,
  supportive, but not quick.  We understand the reasons for that, as
  far as we are privy of them, but I personally would be hard-pressed
  to call the support excellent, despite being very appreciative of
  it]]


  1 Use of FG for Standards based development and interoperability
    tests:

    We have in particular been able to prepare SAGA for future
    deployments on XSEDE, by testing the SAGA-BES adaptor in a variety
    of configurations, against Unicore and Genesis-II backends, with
    UserPass and Certificate based authentication, with POSIX and HPC
    application types, with and without file staging support.  While
    those tests are still ongoing, it allows us to be confident toward
    the expected XSEDE middleware evolution -- in most cases by far,
    the standards based approach seems to work without a hitch.

    [[A small number of Genesis-II calls triger a XML level
    incompatibility we have yet to address on our end -- otherwise,
    all interop tests have been working fine, without any adjustments
    in the SAGA code base.]]

    Further, we are continuously using FG based job submission
    endpoints for GIN driven interoperation tests with a variety of
    other production Grid infrastructures, including DEISA, PRACE,
    Teragrid and EGI (see http://forge.gridforum.org/sf/projects/gin/
    and http://www.saga-project.org/interop-demos/).

    In order to simplify the deployment and to improve end user
    support for SAGA, we have been using FG hosts to develop, test and
    harden our deployment procedures, by mimicking the CSA approach we
    currently use on TeraGrid and XSEDE.  At the same time, that
    deployment procedure makes SAGA and SAGA based components
    available and maintained on all FG endpoints.


  2 Use of FG for Analysing & Comparing Programming Models and
    Run-time tools for Computation and Data-Intensive Science.

    - Development of Tools and Frameworks:

      - P* experiments
 
        'P*' is a conceptual model of pilot based abstractions, in
        particular for pilot jobs.  Our work on P* includes comparison
        between different PilotJob frameworks (BigJob, Condor GlideIn,
        Diane, Swift), and between different coordination models
        within those frameworks.  We used FG for a number of those
        experiments, as it allowed to compare a range of
        characteristics in a controlled environment.


      - Advanced dynamic partitioning and distribution of
        data-intensive distributed applications

        Futuregrid resources have been crucial in carrying out a first 
        set of scoping experiments for O.W.'s Ph.D thesis: "Towards a 
        Reasoning Framework and Software System to Aid the Dynamic
        Partitioning, Distribution and Execution of Data-Intensive 
        Applications". In these scoping experiments, three distinct 
        Futurebgrid resources (india, hotel, alamo) used to coordinately
        execute a data-intensive genome matching workload (HTC). The 
        partitioning and distribution decisions were dynamically made by 
        an experimental software system based on autonomic computing concepts 
        which is capable of monitoring FG HPC resources as well as 
        jobs during workload execution.  


      - Bliss (Bliss is SAGA)
      
        Bliss (http://oweidner.github.com/bliss/) is an experimental 
        implementation of SAGA written in pure Python. Bliss does not 
        rely on any distributed Grid middleware -- however, it allows
        distributed access to all FutureGrid HPC resources by providing 
        an SFTP plugin for file transfer as well as 'PBS over SSH' for 
        SAGA's job submission and resource information capabilites. 
        Bliss has been developed specifically with FutureGrid in mind
        and has been used in several cross-site experiments as the 
        primary access mechanism to compute and storage resources. 
        While 'PBS over SSH' probably won't be a replacement for 
        'real' Grid middleware (like, e.g., Globus), its exposure through
        the standardized SAGA API presents an attractive and light-weight 
        alternative to traditionally large Grid middleware stacks. 


      - High-performance dynamic applications 

        In extreme-scale computational science, there is a growing
        importance and need of specialized architectures and
        multi-model simulations. In this emerging environment,
        different simulation components will have different
        computational requirements.  Instead of coarsely assigning
        resources to all simulation components for their life-time, we
        research methodologies whereby simulations can be split into
        their constituent components and distributed computational
        resources are allocated according to the needs of these
        individual components.  Each simulation component is
        transferred along with the data and parameters needed to
        execute the simulation component on the target hardware.  This
        approach enables multi-component applications to more easily
        benefit from heterogeneous and distributed computing
        environments, in which multiple types of processing elements
        and storage may be available.

        In cases where software is developed with a static execution
        mode and only one resource in mind, the choice to distribute
        may not be available. By creating a dynamic method of
        execution and developing software which can package, transmit,
        and execute sub-applications remotely, existing simulations
        may be extended to make use of distributed resources. Through
        specially-designed modules that are compatible with
        pre-existing Cactus framework applications, we demonstrated
        means of improving task-level parallelism and extended the
        range of compute resources used with a minimal amount of
        change needed to existing applications.  Experiments were
        conducted using production cyberinfrastructures on FutureGrid
        and XSEDE, with up to 128 cores.


      - Grid/Cloud interop (with Andre Luckow) [finished]
    
        We demonstrated for the first time the use of Pilot-Jobs
        concurrently on different types of infrastructures;
        specifically, we use BigJob both on FutureGrid HPC and Cloud
        resources as well as on other resources such as the XSEDE and
        OSG Condor resources.

    
    - Data Intensive Apps

      - MapReduce [with Andre Luckow]

        In Ref. [1], published in Future Generation Computing Systems,
        we compare implementations of the word-count application to
        not only use multiple, heterogeneous infrastructure (Sector
        versus DFS), but also to use different programming models
        (Sphere versus MapReduce).


      - Grid/Cloud NGS analysis exp. 

        Building upon SAGA-based MapReduce, we have constructed an
        efficient pipeline for gene sequencing. This pipeline is
        capable of dynamic resource utilization and task/worker
        placement. 


    - hybrid cloud-Grid scientific applications and tools (autonomic
      schedulers) [with Manish Parashar, finished]

      Policy-based (objective driven) Autonomic Scheduler provide a
      system-level approach to hybrid grid-cloud usage.  FG has been
      used for the development and extension of such Autonomic
      Scheduleing and application requirements.  We have integrated
      the distributed and heterogeneous resources of FG as a pool of
      resources which can be allocated by the policy-based Autonomic
      Scheduler (Comet). The Autonomic Scheduler  dynamically
      determines and allocates instances to meet specific objectives,
      such as lowest time-to-completion, lowest cost etc. We also used
      FG supplement objective driven pilot jobs on TeraGrid (ranger).


    - investigate run time fluctuations of application kernels

      We attempt to explore and characterize run-time fluctuations for
      a given application kernel representative of both a large number
      of MPI/parallel workloads and workflows.  Fluctuation appears to
      be independent of the system load and a consequence of the
      complex interaction of the MPI library specifics and
      virtualization layer, as well as operating environment.  Thus we
      have been investigating fluctuations in application performance,
      due to the cloud operational environment.  An explicit aim is to
      correlate these fluctuations to details of the infrastructure.
      As it is difficult to discern or reverse engineer the specific
      infrastructure details on EC2 or other commercial
      infrastructure, FG has provided us a controlled and well
      understood environment at infrastructure scales that are not
      possible at the individual PI/resource level.



  3 Saga has also produced the following papers (selection):

    [1] Saurabh Sehgal, Miklos Erdelyi, Andre Merzky and Shantenu Jha:
    "Understanding application-level interoperability: Scaling-out
    MapReduce over high-performance grids and clouds", in 'Future
    Generation Computer Systems vol. 27.5, 2011

    [2] Andre Luckow, Lukasz Lacinski and Shantenu Jha: "SAGA BigJob:
    An Extensible and Interoperable Pilot-Job Abstraction for
    Distributed Applications and Systems", in 'Proceedings of the 10th
    IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster, Cloud and Grid
    Computing, CCGRID'10", 2010

    [3] Andre Luckow and Shantenu Jha: "Abstractions for
    Loosely-Coupled and Ensemble-Based Simulations on Azure", in
    'Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Cloud Computing
    Technology and Science, CloudCom'10", 2010

    [4] Joohyun Kim, Sharath Maddineni and Jha, Shantenu: "Building
    Gateways for Life-Science Applications using the Dynamic
    Application Runtime Environment (DARE) Framework", in 'Proceedings
    of the 2011 TeraGrid Conference: Extreme Digital Discovery,
    TG'11', 2011 

    [5] Joohyun Kim, Sharath Maddineni and Jha, Shantenu:
    "Characterizing Deep Sequencing Analytics using BFAST: Towards a
    Scalable Distributed Architecture for Next-Generation Sequencing
    Data", in 'Proceedings of the Second International Workshop on
    Emerging Computational Methods for the Life Sciences, ECMLS'11',
    2011 



FuturePlans:
------------

  We will be continuing to use FG as a resource for SAGA development.
  Amongst others, we intent: to move the testing infrastructure to
  other SAGA based components, like our PilotJob and PilotData
  frameworks; to widen the set of middlewares used for testing (with
  again having XSEDE and other PGIs in mind); to enhancing the scope
  and scale of our scalability testing; to test and harden our
  deployment and packaging procedures.


