THE SAGA WEBSITE:

 http://saga.cct.lsu.edu

A Simple and Powerful Abstraction Layer

SAGA - the Simple API for Grid Applications is a proposed recommendation of the Open Grid Forum (OGF) and defines a high-level programmatic interface for developers of Distributed Applications. 

The fundamental idea of SAGA is to lower the barrier for applications and application scientists to utilize distributed infrastructure by providing a simple and uniform interface to the most often required functionality in order to construct general purpose, extensible, dynamic and scalable applications. 

Implementation 

The SAGA group at CCT strives to implement a fully OGF compliant SAGA C++ reference implementation including the runtime system, middleware adaptors and API language bindings for Python and C. Currently, the implementation comprises the functional packages and middleware adaptors for: 

o Job Submission & Management (Globus GRAM. OMII GridSAM, Condor, Fork) 
o Filesystem Access (Local Filesystems, Globus GridFTP)
o Replica Management (SQL-based, Globus RLS)
o Advert Services (SQL-based) 
o Checkpoint & Recovery Services (Migol) 
o Stream Handling
o Remote Procedure Calls

Enabling Distributed Applications:
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
SAGA has been used to support a wide range of applications types.

- Enabling Providing Applications with novel and agile distributedexecution modes. For example, we have re-architected a Kalman- Filterbased application to enable it to determine at run time, the optimalresource to launch sub-jobs.

- SAGA has also been used to implement an adaptive distributed replicaexchange application which can opportunistically exploit multipleresources concurrently without prior arrangement and dynamicallyreallocate resources.

- SAGA is also being used to develop Novel applications written forexplicit deployment on distributed infrastructure, i.e. first-principlesd
SAGA can support a wide range of applications types. Besides developing SAGA itself, CCT is involved in several projects that use SAGA's powerful abstractions: 