1. conversation from UCOMMS
% UCOMMS was planning to submit a paper regarding the development of a
computation-experiment coupled framework at the end of this year
-- Nayong corrects that it can possibly be the coupled framework
between computational components in tandem. Possible target can be the
coupling of a ray-simulation code and a ensemble simulation code
(whose input comes from the experiment).
% Understanding their application target -- Experiment cannot cover
all possible physical situations so that the ensemble simulation will
supplement the intermediate changes between tow distinct experiments.
That is, ensemble simulation supplements how the oil-drilling pipe is
designed and the leaking oil to the ocean is simulated by the ray
simulator. In this research, parameters can be the ground material
(how firm and dense is the ground), the location of the reservoir,
pipe parameters - diameter, thickness, oil-mass flow rate, etc.,
leaking ratio, etc.
% Jeff claims: what is their contribution in view of computational
framework? Structure? Strategy? Component requirement? So the major
authors should be between us, including one or two authors from UCOMMS
-- Nayong agrees that.
% Discussion has not been made in the UCOMMS meeting last time: Nayong
will have some conversation with Chris White some time.
2. hybrid paper correction
% We planned to read through the paper and fill Chapter 3.
% Jeff: read and made minor corrections up to Chapter 2, before
filling Sections 3.B and 3.D. Will be done in the weekend
% Nayong: Reading up to Chapter 2. Will add 3.A (PetaShare) after the
correction of CFD-MD simulation paper
3. paper revision
% According to CFD-MD meeting last Friday, Dimitris promised Nayong
that he will look at the ''FINAL VERSION'' from our site, which means
that our final correction will be passed to Dimitris' side and he will
read through the conclusion.
% Plan: Jeff and Nayong will correct/update the current paper in two
weeks and discuss with Shantenu on Oct. 5th. Shantenu will have the
final correction after then and pass it to Dimitris, expecting his
last revision.
% Jeff: Before starting. He will change Chapters 2.5 and 4.
% Nayong: Applied the update/feedback/change up to Chapter 2.4. Will
compress Chapter 3 and 5.
