1. PRACE (European)
% Jeff participates in this project, specifically WP7 (code optimization, tuning, benchmarking on Tier-0 and 1 systems): trouble in finding a partner, may ask for collaboration to Prof. Coveney (by the help from Shantenu)
% Jeff and Shantenu introduced the possiblility to contribute on WP12 - runtime environment. Jeff will take a look at more and distribute the information.
2. Discussion with UCOMMNS
% Nayong explains more detailed structure (use of black oil solver and ensemble code), Shantenu informs the former work on a runtime environment for Ensemble simulation (an initial version of a BigJob)
% Nayong will look at the former contribution by Yaakoub and Shantenu, as well as the installation/configuration of black oil solver
% Jeff will also help on black oil solver installation (a Cactus-based code)
% Nayong and Jeff will deploy these solvers on the hybrid framework (in ''3'') as a use case and add specific functionalities for this simulation
3. Hybrid framework design
% chapter 3 on a paper (implementation) is under writing: Jeff will do soon
% The functionality on this framework overlaps with the specific framework for UCOMMS (in ''2''), plus the consideration for coupling system (an interface library and Make system). Shantenu suggests to implement this hybrid framework first and use basic functionality to UCOMMS (and tune them for their special purpose). Jeff and Nayong agrees with this.
4. Paper revision
% Jeff will correct Chapters 2-5 and 4 (Numerical Results), Nayong will correct Chapters 3 and 5 (Computation-related). After the correction, they will ask Shantenu for revision.
% Shantenu suggest to send Chapter 4 to Dimitris and give one-month period, instead of sending the final version and asking for correction on conclusion part. Jeff would like to suggest that, 'send Chapter 4 to Dimitris at the same time we send the full version to Shantenu, give one month and submit the paper independent of whether he returns the revision'.